
Advice on running model.

The model has many options -- the GC and AM cells can have simple
automatically-generated morphology or they can be "realistic,"
generated from a digitized cell.  They can have no "biophysics,"
i.e. just morphology, synaptic connections, and membrane
resistance and capacitance, or they can have complex biophysical
properties, i.e. full sets of membrane channels.  The model runs
reasonably fast with simple morpology and without biophysics but
is slower with more complicated morphology or membrane channels. 

There are several experiments. "epsp" defines a response to a
flashed spot of light.  "tofro" is a current clamp recording,
and "tofro_vc" is a voltage clamp experiment, both with a bar of
light that sweeps across the ganglion cell at a constant speed:

Here are some typical runs:

  nc -d 1 -v ds3.n | vid                 (displays full model anatomy)
  nc -d 1 -v --make_am 0 ds3.n | vid     (displays model without amacrines)
  nc -d 1 -v --bp_nn 15  ds3.n | vid     (displays model with 15 um bp nn dist)

  nc -v --expt tofro     ds3.n | vid     (runs "tofro" experiment)
  nc -v --expt tofro --exponbp 3 ds3.n | vid   (change bp synaptic gain)
  nc -v --expt tofro --nchanbpgc 20 ds3.n | vid   (change bp->gc synaptic cond)

To change the size of the display window:

  nc -v --expt tofro ds3.n | vid -w 2    (bigger "vid' window)

Another way to run "vid":

  ncv --expt tofro   ds3.n      ("ncv" is made by "ln -s nc ncv") 

To save the output in columns of numbers in a file:

  nc --expt tofro --exponbp 3 ds3.n > file.tofro.3.r  (set unique file name)

Typically one looks at the "vid" output and then makes a script
file to search parameter space.  Each run makes a unique file
name.  You can then analyze these "run files" in standard ways
with any plotting program or you can look at them with "vid":

  plotmod file.tofro.3.r | vid         (look at run file with vid)

Please let me know if you have comments or requests for changes
on the script -- or advice about how we should proceed or
communicate.   

Best wishes,

Rob

rob@retina.anatomy.upenn.edu
Aug, 2001

